In the previous video, we have done configuring
port security on the switch 1.
Next in this video, we are going to do testing.
So first, let’s configure an ip address for all
server and pc.
Here let’s say the ip address is 192.168.1.1, in this case, we don’t need a gateway, because all of this computer will
be in the same block subnet, remember that we
need a gateway if we want to communicate with
others computer in the different block subnet.
So in this case, we don’t need a gateway.
Next, let’s configure the ip address for server 2.
Desktop, ip configuration, and the ip
address is 192.168.1.2. Next server 3,
the ip address is 192.168.1.3, and last
for the pc, the ip address is 192.168.1.4.
And here for the hacker computer, let’s change
the name,
and the ip address is 192.168.1.5.
Now let’s test the communication between
all server and pc. Server 1 to pc,
success, server2 to the pc,
success, and server3 to pc,
this is also success. So now communication
between all server and pc is ok.
Now let’s test the port security on fa0/1,
we can unplug the cable from server1,
and then connecting the cable to the hacker.
Now let’s try to send packet from hacker,
okay here we can see that now the interface is
red, this is means that the interface is shutdown.
Let’s check in the switch, do show
port-security interface fa0/1,
here we can see that now the
status is secure shutdown,
Okay now let’s say we know about the hacker,
so we run to the data center and plug
the cable back to the server.
Okay here the problem is the interface is
still shutdown even we already plug the
cable back to the server 1. The question
is, how we can enable this interface?
Let’s try it, go to interface
fa0/1, let’s try no shutdown.
Here we can see that the interface is
still shutdown. The light is still red.
So we can not enable the interface
using command no shutdown.
Let’s try again, no shutdown, here
the interface is still shutdown.
So what is the right command?
To enable the interface shutdown by port security
like this, we need to use shutdown command first,
and then no shutdown.
Okay here we can see that now the interface is up.
So remember, we need to shutdown the
interface first, and then no shutdown.
Now let’s check again, do show
port-security interface fa0/1,
here we can see that now the status is
secure up. So now server 1 is up again.
I think enough for this video
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video